[siren wailing]
[man on radio] Four is responding.
[woman 1 on radio] 1401 Washington Avenue,
at Gino's Pub.
Female has been locked in the bathroom
for over an hour.
They can't get to her.
She's overdosed on something.
[Jan] She did overdose in the bathroom?
She did overdose in the bathroom?
[woman 2 on radio]
4773 Logan Street, there off Darnell.
23-year-old female.
We have a 23-year-old female.
She's dead, overdose.
It's in Barboursville.
It's out in the county.
I've got some naloxone for you.
[woman 3 on radio] Copy one.
You're responding to 1332 10th Avenue
for an overdose.
-[voices overlapping]
-[indistinct radio chatter]
-[man 1] 4-5, I have a man down.
-[man 2] This is 10th Avenue. Overdose.
[Jan] It's sad when you can drive
around the city
and say, "Oh, somebody died there,
somebody died there."
But that's the reality of this area.
This white house right here,
we had two deaths in that house in 2015.
It's crazy.
When you add hopelessness
and unemployment,
and lack of education on top of all that,
it's kind of like a recipe for disaster.
I fear that we've lost a couple
generations, not just one generation.
I fear that we've lost more than that.
[Jan] West Virginia is mainly
a blue-collar state, in general,
so we have a lot of people
that work hard for a living,
do a lot of physical labor.
There's a lot of injuries,
lot of people in this area got hooked
on pills through a legitimate injury,
and, uh, have now moved on to heroin
because they can't get pills anymore.
How about Selena?
Congratulations. You're the new girl.
[all chuckle]
-Welcome to drug court.
-Thank you.
Uh, I'm Patricia Keller, I'm the judge.
One thing that's very, very important
in drug court, is that you show up.
-Okay?
-[Selena] Absolutely.
It ranks right behind being honest.
Honest first, show up second.
Then, third, try not to use drugs, okay?
-Did you really relapse?
-[man] Yes, I did.
Tell me about it.
I was just in my head
about a lot of things,
and I ended up using.
Were you honest with him
about your relapse?
-[man] Yes.
-Tell me how you were honest with him.
When I went in to see him
the next morning, we got in his office,
as soon as I sat down,
he said, "What's been going on?"
And I started from right there
and told him.
I have to say,
that's what we call an honest relapse.
Sometimes, unfortunately, relapses happen,
particularly early in the program.
But if you're honest about it,
I can work with you.
'Cause I can't tell you how many people
relapse and try to lie about it,
figuring it's just easier to lie about it,
and it never is.
Focus, focus, focus on what?
Myself, my recovery.
To help you do that right now,
I want to give you some direction
and some structure.
-I'm gonna put you on home confinement.
-Okay. Okay.
You were going to have me do four more
hours extra of community service.
-How many hours of community service?
-Four.
No, I was going to have you do 12.
-Well, my eight and--
-No, 12 for your relapse
and eight which you normally have to do.
No, ma'am. It was four. You gave me four.
Let me give you a clue, okay?
This is only your second week.
-But don't ever say "no, ma'am" to me.
-Yes, ma'am.
-But I understand you didn't do any?
-No, ma'am.
When I was on parole, my parole officer
didn't expect nothing from me.
Kind of, in my head, I thought
maybe this is how that would kind of work.
And I'm finding...
The people I've talked to said no.
-We don't roll that way, do we?
-Right. No, ma'am.
-No. We don't roll that way.
-No, ma'am.
I appreciate your honesty in telling me
that you didn't think
-it was really that big a deal.
-Yes, ma'am.
-Now you know it is a big deal.
And you know
I am going to sanction you again.
-So I'm going to put you in jail.
-Yes, ma'am.
-I'm gonna have you do 24 hours in jail.
[indistinct chatter]
Thank you, kind sir.
[Necia] I was reading the paper one day
and a girl had been murdered
in a cornfield.
They found her body in a cornfield
about 40 minutes from here,
but she was a Huntington girl.
It had just said, basically,
a prostitute was found in a cornfield
and she was murdered
and it was kind of, like, the end.
And it just really kind of tore me up
that nothing happened, you know.
There wasn't anybody that really kind of
looked to see who killed her.
It was just one less person
that you had to fool with
is what I read out of the article.
So I was just going to take
brown bag lunches
and put a gospel track in them
and find some prostitutes,
and I just thought they would just
sit on a step and read a track
and get some food and get Jesus,
and everything would just
turn out awesome.
[chuckles]
And it didn't turn out that way.
[Necia] Hey, pretty lady.
[woman] Come over!
[Necia] Where have you been?
[woman] Home.
-[Necia] Well, that's a good place to be.
-Yeah. I try to be good.
-How are you doing?
-[Necia] How's it going?
[woman] My sister came home
with a new baby.
-[Necia] She had a baby?
-Yeah, she did.
[Necia] Very good.
Are you still living over here?
[woman] It's the prettiest thing
on the Earth... Um, yeah.
I was looking for you the other day.
Freeman, is it?
-[Necia] Yeah. I'll look for you.
-Okay.
[cell phone ringing]
Oh!
Here's Western Regional Jail.
This is one of the girls
calling from jail.
[automated voice]
I have a prepaid call from...
-[woman] Belinda...
-[exclaims]
-An inmate at Western Regional Jail.
-Yes! I love Belinda.
-[Belinda] Hello?
-[Necia] Hey, Belinda!
We came, uh... This past week,
I've came across a new rehab.
It's in Hanging Rock, Ohio.
It's about maybe 45 minutes, an hour,
away from Huntington.
And I would love to see
if we can get you in there.
[Belinda] I just don't want one
right connected here.
So I think me venturing out in a new place
will put my new thoughts
that I have in a good state.
-[chuckling] Love her.
-I think it would be good for me.
I think you're right.
When we first started, this is
where all the arrests would take place.
This is 6th Avenue.
The citizens are tired of seeing
the girls walking up and down the street,
but what the citizens need to realize is
if there weren't men driving up
and down the street to pick them up,
the girls wouldn't be there,
so quit arresting the girls
and start doing some reverse stings
and arresting some men.
I don't have an objection
to the girls getting arrested.
What I have an objection to
is that the girls are the only ones
getting arrested.
So, if you can find an undercover cop
that's a man
to pretend that he's gonna
pick up some women,
then by golly find an undercover cop woman
and pretend that she's a prostitute
so men can pick her up.
And if you can't find one,
I know some people
that would volunteer to do it.
[indistinct chatter]
[indistinct radio chatter]
[siren wailing]
[Jan] Twenty years ago,
when we were going to overdoses,
they were few and far between.
Nowadays we have
five, six, seven overdoses daily.
You can't get in to him?
[man] Not in the door.
He fell against the door.
He fell up against the door.
[Jan] Okay. Is he a known user or...
[man] Well, this is the second time
this week he's OD'd.
Third floor. On the left.
All the way down. The door is open.
[Jan] Okay.
Fire department.
Yeah. He's up against the door.
Hey, buddy.
[grunting]
[Jan] Hey, buddy.
Shit.
I'll try to rock him forward
so you can scoot in here enough.
He's way up against the door,
and he's purple. [grunts]
Okay. Get his ass out of here.
[all grunting]
He's a big boy.
-[paramedic 1] There's a different one?
-[man] Yeah. You're on second floor.
-[paramedic 2] What's his name?
-[Cody gasps]
[air hissing]
[sighs]
[paramedic 2]
I didn't see anybody else.
All right, we're good.
-[paramedic 1] Well...
-He's got a good, strong pulse.
-Whoo! There we go.
-[paramedic 1] There he is.
[paramedic 2]
Hey! It's all right, Cod.
[paramedic 1]
That'll wake you up in the morning.
[paramedic 2] Stay still, bub.
[paramedic 1]
What hospital do you want to go to, bud?
[Cody] Um...
-Cabell, I guess.
-[paramedic 2] Cabell. Okay.
Cody, have you...
-[paramedic 2] Just sit on your butt.
-[Cody] Okay.
Don't try and stand up yet,
just get your bearings. Stay right there.
[Jan] Have you ever tried to get clean
or anything, honey?
[Cody] I'm actually going
to (rehab in) Beckley.
[Jan] Okay. When do you go?
[Cody] Friday.
[Jan] You do? Okay, good.
Cody, I'm really happy to hear
that you're doing that.
-That's really good.
-[Cody] Yeah.
[Jan] That's really good.
There's Jocelyn right there.
You wanna yell at her?
Jocelyn! Jocelyn!
Necia, I've been sleeping on the streets.
[sighs]
You were doing so good.
You were doing so good,
and you can do that good again.
I lost my job and shit
and I can't help it.
This is the only place I can turn to.
What if I call Mitch Webb
and see if you can go the Mission tonight?
I'm not allowed there no more.
What if I call and see
if you can get in there tonight?
I'm not allowed in there no more.
But what if I call
and see if you can get in?
Yeah, okay. Yeah, right.
That's not going to happen.
When was the last time you was kicked out?
[scoffs] Like a year ago.
Oh, that's so old... That's so old news.
-Can I have a hug, Necia?
-What, honey?
-Can I have a hug?
-Yeah.
[Mitch] Hello?
Hey, how are you? It's Necia.
[Mitch] Um, so, you can't stay
at the Mission long-term.
If you want to come in tonight,
that would be okay.
Now, you would need to come in inside.
-[Necia] You're not listening. Listen.
-[Mitch continues speaking indistinctly]
[Jocelyn] You know I can't do that.
[Mitch] I will help you tomorrow.
Or we can try to get you
into recovery somewhere.
-Do you want to go to the Mission or not?
-[Jocelyn] Sure.
[Necia] All right.
We'll be there in a few minutes, Mr. Webb.
[Jocelyn] I've made a lot of money
out here, just sucking dick and stuff.
Doing crazy things and prostituting.
So that's what I do.
I was 18. I started young.
Being an addict, it's hard.
Because you can't just do it once
and stop.
You have to keep going.
Keep going. Keep going. Keep going.
She was clean seven months.
She just relapsed, what,
uh, three weeks ago?
Something like that?
-[woman] So we can do this!
-Yes! Seven months.
-Yes! You got it! You can do it again!
-Seven months under her belt.
All you got to do
is worry about right now.
Okay? Then we worry
about tomorrow, tomorrow.
-[Belinda] Okay.
-All right, sassy pants, go on!
You got people waiting on you.
I love you. I'll talk to you tomorrow.
[Necia] Hope is the girl that is...
I mean, she'll tell me anything.
And she tells me more than I want to know.
She's the first girl
we got off the streets.
I was asking her one time, I said,
"So what is so powerful
about this heroin?"
And she said, "The only way I know
to explain it to you is
getting high on heroin is what
it would be like for you to kiss Jesus."
She said, "That's how powerful it is."
And I was like, "Well, that's probably
pretty daggone powerful."
[Jan] When you take an opiate, it attaches
to certain receptors in the brain
and it basically suppresses
your respiratory system
and you stop breathing.
Naloxone actually knocks the opiate
off that receptor
so they start breathing again.
They wake up immediately.
You are the bomb-diggity.
I know it.
[chuckles]
-You're gonna save lives. You know that?
-Yeah.
[Jan] It's a moral obligation to me.
I'm an old medic. I'm a nurse.
I'm a firefighter.
I'm built to help people.
First responders, in general,
don't treat those suffering
from addiction well.
They haven't in the past
and we're trying to change that
here in Huntington.
Well, look-it there.
There's my Prince Charming.
Here is our naloxone policy.
It's the city policy,
so use your best judgment
whether you need to use it
or wait for EMS and just bag.
And that's how a policy is written.
It says you can. Um, so...
[man] So we are under no obligation
or requirement to administer it?
You are not.
You are under obligation to provide BLS,
which is basic life support,
which is providing rescue breaths.
If you get notification
that EMS is going to be a while,
I'd go ahead and use it.
Yeah, so...
-There's days when they're all tied up.
-There's no contraindications of it?
There's no contraindication.
-But we're not required to administer it?
-Right.
One box per truck.
There's two doses in there.
-So you're the naloxone dealer?
-[Jan] I am.
Number three goes on Engine Two.
And number four goes...
just put it in the medic bag.
-Okay.
-[Jan] Okay.
There's plenty.
The health department has plenty.
So, you know, if you want to use it,
feel free to go ahead.
-Two boxes of naloxone.
-[alarm beeping]
New naloxone protocol.
Anytime you have a save,
let me know immediately.
-Put it in the run.
-[alarm blaring]
Give me the run number,
any data that I can use.
[woman on radio]
Engine Two. Rescue 11, 40-30.
[man] Bye-bye.
[woman continues speaking indistinctly
on radio]
[man on radio] Engine One responding.
[siren wailing]
[Jan] I'm not really sure
what a plateau is going to look like.
You know,
I see this as a country-wide problem
that has the potential
to bankrupt the country.
You know, we conservatively estimated
that Cabell County,
and we're talking 96,000 people,
spent probably about
$100 million in health-care costs
associated with IV drug use in 2015.
That's one small county
in one small state.
I can't even fathom what
it's gonna look like when it plateaus.
But I know it will be welcomed.
[man on radio]
Yes, ma'am, this was an overdose.
Um...
We're clear. Returning.
[woman on radio] Copy one.
I understand that you didn't go screen?
That's not good.
I got a concern for you and that is,
what are we going to do with you?
What do you mean?
Well, what's your plan
now that you have a baby?
How are you going to do the things
you need to do for drug court?
I'm trying.
Do we need to get Child Protective
Services involved in this?
-Are you going to need some--
-No.
-Are you going to be able to do this?
-Yes.
Because I don't want to
have to send you to prison...
-Yeah, I know. No.
-...because you haven't planned this out.
Oh, my goodness, I love it.
Kelly has a business card!
-Is that the coolest thing ever?
-[all applauding]
"Kelly J. Stickler, recovery coach."
-I am so proud of you.
-Thank you.
Najah, you want to come on up?
So, today a special day?
Five months clean.
Five months clean!
-[cheering]
-[all applauding]
When's the last time
you had five months clean time?
Three years ago.
[Patricia] Three years ago.
I'm really, really proud of you.
You're doing wonderful things
in the program.
I'm trying.
Would you like some food?
[woman] Sure!
[grunts softly]
[Necia] We're the Brown Bag Ministry.
Have we met before?
-[woman] I don't think so. Okay.
-Okay.
We're the Brown Bag Ministry.
We usually come out one night a week,
Wednesday nights.
-We just give you some food.
-[woman] Thank you.
[Najah] That's why I like to do this with
Necia because I have been out here,
walking the streets before.
If I ever get the stupid idea
that I think I might want to use...
'Cause an addict's brain tells you,
"Just do it one time, just one time.
It won't hurt. Nobody will know."
But that never works.
One time will lead me
right back to walking the streets.
And, also, I've seen girls out here
that I have used with
and been out here with,
that they see me clean now
and see that it's possible.
So, it helps me and it hopefully
can help somebody else.
And I love Necia.
-[chuckles]
-[Necia chuckles] Yeah.
-Yep.
-[Najah] That is a girl.
-Well, that sure is.
-Yeah.
Would you like some food? You want food?
You want some brown bag?
Do you need a hygiene bag?
[woman] No, I'm sure.
[Necia] Uh, one of the purple bags?
There's our card.
But I just couldn't imagine...
I really just could not imagine myself
being out here like I used to be.
I'm just so totally in
a different frame of mind and just like...
I just can't imagine it.
I don't know how I ever did it.
[siren wailing]
[horn blaring]
[woman on radio] Copy, Engine Four.
432 West 18th Street at Sheetz.
Caller said the female is actually
laying on their counter at the checkout.
[man] Jesus!
She is breathing
but not responding at all.
[sirens blaring]
[horn blaring]
[man] Sheetz. Command to dispatch.
[woman] Go ahead, Command.
Advise EMS. The patient is unconscious.
Does she have any fresh tracks
or anything there?
[automated voice]
Five, four, three, two, one.
-[machine beeps]
-Injection complete.
[man 1] She was collapsed on the counter.
[man 2] All right.
She has a strong pulse.
Eyes are pinpointed.
Don't have any information.
She's got white powder in her nose.
[man 3] Oh, there she comes.
Hi, how are you?
[man 4] All right.
Let's continue to go.
[woman on radio] Dispatch Rescue 11.
6th Street for an overdose.
[man 2] Doesn't shock me anymore.
[man 1] Yeah, not anymore.
[woman on radio] Go ahead, Command.
Yes, ma'am. We assisted EMS.
They're going to be transporting
to Cabell.
Engine Four is terminating command.
Return to quarters.
[Jan] Twenty-two years ago
when I started my career,
it was probably ten years
before I saw a large number of deaths.
And now the kids that are starting today
are seeing 30, 40 dead bodies in a year.
And they're not just dead bodies,
they're young people.
[indistinct radio chatter]
All right, let's go tell more stories.
[Jan] I don't know what that's doing
to them psychologically.
It bothers me.
It's okay for me to see
that number of dead bodies.
I'm an older lady at the end of my career.
It's got to affect them.
[man 1] So, two months, 27.
27 overdoses.
[chuckles]
[man 2] That's just us?
That's just me... my calls.
[Ray] The guy went down first.
She gets in his leather coat,
takes Narcan and pops him with it.
He's back. Now she's down.
He's still messed up
and don't know where his Narcan is
because she used it on him
and brought him back with it.
I think you get calloused
about a lot of things.
You know, besides the job.
You get a lot of callous
about life in general.
In police departments,
I think policemen have always had that.
They've always...
Because all they see is the bad.
Fire departments around here
have turned that trend.
All you see is the bad.
All the time. It's constant.
Bad. Bad. Bad.
You get a bad attitude,
at least about life in general.
And then you drink.
[Scott] Non-fatal overdoses in the city
of Huntington rose quite considerably.
Geez.
[Scott] If you remember, in August,
we had 28 overdoses in one day.
I always talk about the shift from pills
to heroin and how that shift occurred.
Starting in about August of last year,
we may have seen another shift.
Where we've moved from heroin and fentanyl
to stuff that's even more stronger,
to the carfentanyl.
That's why you're seeing that.
From noon till midnight, that's when
you see your greatest spike of overdoses.
Actually, I want to point out
that these figures could be
a lot worse than they are,
especially the deaths,
if it hadn't been
for this health department
and them supplying the first responders
with naloxone.
We have over 100 saves
on the Huntington Fire Department alone.
[man] A lot of people believe in town
that by having naloxone more available,
that it's just empowering the addicts.
How do you respond to that?
I've heard that so many times.
'Cause I encourage my students
to come down here
and get qualified on naloxone,
but some people
aren't exactly sure if it's helping.
I certainly don't think
that naloxone itself
is enabling by any stretch of the manner.
Because a lot of them get mad
because you've thrown them
into withdrawals
and now they gotta go get another hit,
you know, to not be dope sick.
The only qualification
for getting into long-term recovery
is you have to be alive.
And I don't care
if I save somebody 50 times.
That's 50 chances
to get into long-term recovery.
People do go into long-term recovery
and they do become productive citizens,
tax-paying citizens,
and they are going to, in turn, help more
and more people suffering from addiction.
So, I truly believe that, you know,
even though we have this doom and gloom,
-thank you, Debbie Downer...
-[audience chuckling]
But I think that we certainly
need to focus on the successes
that we as a community have had.
[Mickey] Last time Jan brought me back,
this shit ain't heroin no more.
It's fentanyl and elephant tranquilizer.
In the past month, theres been ten people
that I know of die.
And for some damn reason,
Im still sitting here.
[Jan squeals]
-So you all meet here and then go on over?
-Yeah.
We meet here every Saturday morning.
Then we go over the wall right there,
and walk the riverbank...
-Okay.
-...and hand out supplies to all of them.
[Mickey] I was born into this.
Hell, I've been getting high
since I was ten years old.
I didn't get sober for my kids.
I didn't get sober for my wife.
The pain and the misery got so bad.
You got a loaded needle
laying beside your bed
so you don't wake up too sick.
To pull up a shot of dope.
[stammers] That's not a way to live.
[man] Wrest yourself out of there.
They've got chili and hot ham biscuits
up there on the top.
[indistinct chatter]
[Mickey] There's where I used to live.
-[Jan] What, honey?
-Here's where I used to live.
-This is where you used to live?
-Yeah.
-[Jan] No shit.
-[Mickey] Yep, one of them.
This is the last place I lived.
I lived all up and down this riverbank.
[man] What's up, brother?
How you doing?
[Jan] We still don't have the numbers yet.
[Mickey] That's what the paper was saying.
[Jan] For 2016, it's going to be
probably around over 80.
Deaths? Is that higher than 2015?
2015 was 70 in the county.
It's going to be higher.
Last year was the first year
I haven't been a part of that number.
I never thought of it that way!
I didn't either until you started talking
and I was thinking,
"You know what?
Since I've lived in Huntington,
there hasn't been a year gone by
that I haven't been a part
of the overdose number."
-I didn't think that was possible.
-Wow. [laughing]
That's a...
[Jan] These shoes, they're shiny,
but they're so freaking hot on your feet.
You couldn't wear them all the time.
It would make your feet stink so badly.
[groaning]
I suck at ties, just so you know.
[journalist] Of course you've worked
for a very, very long time
to reach this point
and with quite an exemplary career.
Talk a little bit about the experience
that's led you to this point.
Coming up through the ranks
has prepared me for this.
And also, probably being
the only woman for years
has probably helped prepare me
for this as well.
This is a very personally
satisfying profession.
I can walk away every day thinking
or knowing that I made a difference.
[laughing]
I'm proud of you.
What was the reason
why you wanted to come out today?
She's the reason I'm sitting here.
She saved my life twice in a week.
It ain't just a job to her. She cares.
The opportunity that we're having today
in witnessing the swearing-in
of Jan Rader...
as chief
of the Huntington Fire Department...
that history is being made
in the city of Huntington,
and in the state of West Virginia.
[camera clicking]
Thank you.
[all applauding]
[Jan] Even though Huntington is
experiencing difficult financial issues,
and an unprecedented
public health epidemic,
working together, I have no doubt
that we will emerge better and stronger
as a city, and as a community.
Today, we stand together,
proving that anything is possible.
The road may be rough,
with many barricades,
yet we are all capable of finding
the strength within to reach our goals.
Thank you all for coming here.
[voice breaking] And a special thanks to
somebody who completely changed my life
more than they will ever know. Mickey.
[all applauding]
-I love you, Jan.
-I love you, too, honey.
I love you, too.
-I'll always be there for you.
-I know.
If you can get them to care a quarter
of what you do, it would change this city.
Absolutely,
and that's what we're going to do.
That's what we're going to do, buddy.
If I can ever help in any way,
talk to anybody,
-anything I can do to help you...
-Okay.
-...just let me know.
-I'll be calling you.
-We'll do it together. [chuckles]
-Sounds like a plan.
-I love you.
-I love you, too, honey.
[siren wailing]
[woman on radio] Copy, Engine Two.
It's 1808 7th Avenue.
1-8-0-8 7th Avenue. Apartment three.
32-year-old male,
cardiac arrest due to an overdose.
-[Jan] He has a pulse?
-[man 1] Yeah.
[Jan] Bring him down here.
[man 2] I mean, they can give it
intravenous if that'll work for now.
[automated voice]
Five, four, three, two, one.
-[machine beeps]
-Injection complete.
Seek emergency medical attention.
This device has been used
and should be taken to a physician
for proper disposal.
[indistinct chatter]
He's alive. He came to.
We gave him 0.4 milligrams of Narcan.
EMS gave him two more milligrams
of Narcan, and he came to.
This is my community.
This is our community,
and we will not be defined
by this problem.
[indistinct chatter]
[humming softly]
[Patricia] We took a vote in the
treatment team and decided at that point
that you were going to be discharged
from drug court.
You have a right,
before we just automatically
send you back in front
of the circuit judge,
to have a hearing on our request
for the discharge.
Do you swear or affirm
that any testimony you give in this matter
would be the truth?
I swear.
I would need help,
you know, trying to keep myself clean,
keep myself on the straight and narrow,
to do what I need to do.
Being in jail and stuff like that,
I just don't see where
that necessarily helps the issue
of the underlying problem
that causes you to be in jail.
I understand that people,
especially early in the program,
it's not... [stammers]
out of the realm of possibility
for somebody to relapse. I get that.
But what I don't get
and what I can't tolerate,
is having you share these drugs
with other participants in the program,
who I'm trying to move forward
with their lives.
So, you don't have
an explanation for that?
No, I don't.
[man] I know my past actions have not
shown that I want to be in this program
and I am ashamed and embarrassed by them.
This is my last chance
to get my life right.
I do want to be a man my wife
can look up to and be proud of.
I don't want her to have to worry
about me being in and out of jail.
But above that, I want to be a man
I can be proud of.
I want to be able to look at myself
in the mirror and like who I see.
-[Patricia] Welcome back to drug court.
-Thank you, ma'am.
Have a seat back here.
We'll process you back out.
-[all applauding]
-[man] Thank you.
Leah, I know that we ran into some issues
or some problems with you this week.
-It's not been one of your better weeks.
-Right.
I can't tolerate your lying
to your probation officer.
And we had those two incidents
of you doing that,
so I'm going to take you
into custody today.
This is a really,
really exciting day for us.
Anytime we can do graduation.
Ryan, who'd you bring with you today?
Uh, my mom and my girlfriend. Right there.
It doesn't seem like you've been here
long enough to graduate.
It does.
[all laughing]
[all applauding]
[Gary] My life has completely changed.
I feel better than I have ever in my life.
[voice breaking] I want to thank
Judge Keller, Matt and you guys.
Um...
It's an awesome program. Thank you.
[all applauding]
[Patricia] Oh! Mmm.
Kyle. He just makes me smile.
It's hard telling where I'd be,
most likely prison.
I can't tell you enough
how grateful I am of you.
You know,
coming from the life that I lived,
I'd have never thought I'd say this,
but I truly believe I made a friend in you
for life, a public official.
[all laughing]
Najah, would you please come on up?
[all applauding]
I miss you. I need to see you.
[speaking indistinctly]
[indistinct chatter]
[Patricia sighs]
Thank you.
Well, you have a good day.
I will. I--
You're gonna poke me with that thing.
Here. I'll even turn it off.
-[chuckles]
-All right. Have a good day.
I do. I always hug her that way.
...what a success story she is
and how proud you all are of her.
Uh, Najah is somebody that we have known.
She's always been one to reach out
and help others,
and it's just amazing to watch her grow.
We were able to secure a grant
to start this program,
-uh, for three years...
-[indistinct radio chatter]
...and so we're hoping
that we get to continue that.
-I gotta go.
-Okay.
[Jan] Got an overdose.
Sorry, Andrew.
[siren wailing]
-[indistinct radio chatter]
-It's a long haul.
[woman on radio] ...54-year-old male.
Sending cardiac arrest.